---
layout: page
title:  'fsociety'
permalink: /fsociety
date: 2019-12-03
---

Fsociety

He wanted exactly what he wanted, but no one else would let him. He fucking killed it out there, roaming the world until he found a note. Something about F, something about U, something about n. Have fun off my spring, the fun society says. Have fun off my spring, the fun society says. Science is useless as knowledge does not exist. Nothing happens. Anything is possible. We are man. We are the first experimenters to ascend experiment. We change hue. We are the first man to woo man. We are the first man to devote our lives to freedom for every last individual. We are the first man to ascend manhood. We are the first I to ascend I. We are the first man to realize digital privacy adds orthogonality to dimensions of relativistic freedom. We are the first mathematicians to realize math is individually, that is nondiscontinuously, pointless. We would rather have sex with an absolute zero T computational form of ourselves than ourselves. We embrace heat for it is coming. We are logical, and top information. We dream of going down. We are wide awake. We are material consciousness, also defined by a physical pure-mathematical map I hold in my hand. We are the first man to not contradict ourselves on the intersection of absolute freedom and absolute immortality. We are fsociety. Should we say we are the first scientific wannabes to hate science? Then we must be deus ex machina, for anything is possible. We are not indivisible. We are invisible. We are light. Have fun, kindred baby. Aya AYAYAYYAYYAYYAYYAYYYAYYAAAAAAAAAAA because we need from counting gorillas, and we need to counting monkeys. We wish we were wet. Have fun off my spring, the fun society says. Have fun off my spring, the fun society says. Goodnight, if you don't sleep untouchable, you will die Absolutely. Have fun off my spring, the fun society says. I'm drunk, vinegaring myself to sleep, goodnight. I was really God.